[Intro music]
The paysanne cut is not a very
sophisticated cut.
Depending on the vegetable, the shape of
the cut can be either square, triangle,
half-moon shape, circle and so on.
So the idea really is to have everything small,
up to 2 millimeters for the rectangle
or for long shapes, and it can be square
up to a centimeter.
Now the idea really is to have everything
fitting a tablespoon when you eat your soup.
So here I have different types of vegetable cuts.
Let's have a look.
Green beans, so they're cut into circles.
Celery, triangles and squares.
Same thing for the carrots.
Green cabbage, long rectangles.
Leeks, same thing.
Square of turnips, with a few triangles.
And potatoes, same shape.
To cut the carrots into paysanne,
you want to have many small pieces.
So cut them in half.
Cut the thinnest part lengthwise
into four pieces. [cutting sounds]
Then put them together.
Position your finger, claw position.
And cut it into little triangles.
Cut the other part lengthwise into
three pieces. Put them all together.
Position your hand in a claw position.
And cut it. [cutting sounds]
So as you can see a paysanne can be
square or triangle for carrots.
So repeat the operation
with the remaining carrots.
To cut your turnips into paysanne
you need to cut them into a square of
5 millimeters, which is exactly the same
size as macedoine. Let me show you.
Cut your turnips into 5 millimeter slices.
[cutting sounds] Then cut your slices
into 5 millimeter sticks. Rotate.
Don't worry about the trimmings or the corners.
Then cut each sticks into 5 millimeter squares.
And repeat the operation for all the slices.
[cutting sounds]
To cut your leek into paysanne
you will need to wash it first.
And then because you have split it
in order to wash it, then you're going to
go through and you're going to
divide the larger leaves.
Like this one for example or that one.
[slicing sounds] And this one. Good.
00:03:53,090 --> 00:03:35,010
Put them all together. Hold it.
Position your finger very well on the
claw position. And slice it. [slicing sounds]
I like the smell of leeks. it's very fragrant.
And then the white part. [slicing sounds]
And then cut it into four pieces.
And divide it. [slicing sounds]
And cut almost to the root end
and discard this.
If the recipe calls for the white part of the leek,
you will have to use this part.
But if a recipe calls for the green part of the leek,
then you will have to use this part.
Now, if the recipe doesn't precise,
it's because you have to use both.
That simple.
To cut the celery into paysanne,
first of all there's something I like to do
before using celery ribs is to peel them.
So with a paring knife I am going just to
get the strings. So like so.
There I'm picking up the strings
and this is pretty tough.
I like to remove it all the time.
Let's take another one. Good.
And remove the leaves too.
Cut the celery in half.
Then cut it into little sticks lengthwise.
And finally into little cubes or rectangles
about 4 millimeters, 4 - 5 millimeters pieces.
And if a rib is bigger, just divide it in two.
There we go. [slicing sounds]
Do the same with the remaining ribs.
To cut a green cabbage into paysanne,
so take a quarter of the cabbage
that has been cored and washed.
Cut the cabbage into a centimeter and a half
section or about half-inch sections.
And as you see the cabbage is so tight.
Okay. So it's going to stay together
and it's going to cut into many small pieces.
The pieces seem to be big for paysanne,
but the cabbage is going to shrink
while cooking. So it's going to reduce.
So make sure you keep your fingers into a
claw position and you watch what you're doing.
A green bean paysanne will be something
you will be using as a garnish in a potage,
such as Potage Cultivateur
So the shape of the paysanne will be round
because of the shape of the green beans.
So take a few green beans,
maybe a couple green beans at a time
and place them together
and you're just going to slice them
into about 2 to 3 millimeter slices. Okay.
[slicing sounds]
To hold your green beans position your
index finger and thumb on each side
and position the rest of the fingers
on the claw position over and slice. [slicing sounds]